---
layout: post
title:  "Create Jekyll Sub Blogs using only Liquid"
image: "/assets/bitsbipsbricks/Focus/mwangi-gatheca-qlKaN7eqay8-unsplash.jpg"
permalink: bitsbipsbricks/Jekyll-
---

{% include unsplash_image.html 
   name="patrick-tomasso-61MtRBl1qeE-unsplash.jpg" 
   alt="Toronto Buildings In Fog" 
   photographer="Patrick Tomasso" 
   username="impatrickt" 
   image_link="https://unsplash.com/photos/high-rise-buildings-covered-with-fog-61MtRBl1qeE" 
%}

I started writing a blog in the spirit of [Visa's do 100's things](). When I first started writing it at a ghost site. I decided to merge it with a personal site here. I was upset that I couldn't have working footnotes if I had an image in the middle of the posts because the text above and below the image was a separate markdown block. I also gained confidence as a writer and felt comfortable with my name being associated with my writing. Moving to Jeykll was the right move. I can control how the blog looks and use GitHub for version control for my blog. If I migrate away from Jekyll or even GitHub, it'll be much easier. I don't know if Ghost will be here ten years from now, but I bet git will be, and I want writing to be still accessible.

Sometimes, I want to write something small, a small note mostly for myself, that's not big enough for a blog post at BitsBitsBricks. There are several plugins that help with sub blogs. But I wasn't confident that they would be maintained and don't want to take on dependencies

I built [XXX]() so that you can have sub blogs using Jekyll collections and Liquid without any plugins and Ruby code.

A [category](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/#categories)  can be defined using  the front matter using keys `category` or `categories` (a space separated list of categories) or putting a directory above the post's `_post` directory

This snippet is build to match the style of [Minma], but similar logic can be used for anyother theme. Download the [file]() and save it in _includes/blog.html. Invoke om a page that you want a blog feed, using:

If you want feed for one category 

{% raw%}
{% include blog.html category="bitsbipsbricks" %}
{% endraw %}

Or if you want feed for mutlple catagories

{% include blog.html categories="bitsbipsbricks snippets" %}

Minima assumes that if there are no posts, then XXX should not be shown (https://github.com/jekyll/minima/pull/137/files#r124796175). I disagree. You can have a blog without blog posts

With jekyll-feed, you can generate a feed for a category, but you can't generate a feed for multiple categories.(If the sub-blog is based on multiple categories). If the sub blog is based on a mutliple categories, then it hides the RSS feed option


Keen observers will notice that o(n^2) operations ....