---
layout: post
title: "Maximizing, Customization and Git Alias"
image: "/assets/bitsbipsbricks/Github-Dependabot-PRs/nolan-issac-It0DCaCBr40-unsplash.jpg"
permalink: bitsbipsbricks/Git-Alias
---

{% include unsplash_image.html 
  name="nolan-issac-It0DCaCBr40-unsplash.jpg" 
  alt="Caffe latte on white ceramic cup beside silver and black laptop computer" 
  photographer="Nolan Issac" 
  username="@nolanissac" 
  image_link="https://unsplash.com/photos/caffe-latte-on-white-ceramic-cup-beside-silver-and-black-laptop-computer-It0DCaCBr40" 
%}

I have always had the temperament of a satisficer. I find something that works for me, and I stick to it forever. It's simple and esay, once I make a commitment to something, I don't have to think about that category of thing again. I do this for bagels, pens and IDEs. But I am starting to wonder if I am missing out by not maximizing more.

I have decided to spend more effort customizing my personal computing experience to match my needs and the way I work. I am an engineer by trade. I can write one-off software just for myself, to perfectly match the way that I work. I can extend it, maintain it and fix it as I need.

I am willing to put in the effort needed to reap the benefits of a personal computing environment tailored to me. Now this is often a failure mode of engineers, building custom difficult-to-maintain setups (ie vim key binds) that will only be used by them. On the other, I respect those people and they seem to be pretty good at being engineers.

The easiest way to build software people will use is to build software for yourself. But I do understand the preferences for software are different from other people (See PATIO11 TWEET about design)

In that spirit, today I learned about Git aliases

I have a to-do list stored in a markdown file in a Jeykll website in a private GitHub repo which I edit mostly from my MacOS personal computer with Cursor(a VScode-based IDE). Every day I append my to-do items to the end of the file and when I do them, I cross them off. I sent the list and items' which I have done to my uncle over WhatsApp. This is a much better to-do system than Todoist. There is accountability as I send the to-do list to my uncle and unlike in Todoist. I need to be intentional about what I choose to add to my to-do list for that day and what I choose to roll over.


While most of the edits to this private Jeykll site are done through a PR. It is helpful even when I working by myself to have branches and systems for reviewing my old work. Something that one of my old bosses, introduced to me was the concept Done-Done. What actually needs to be done for a task to actually be done? (expand on done-done)

But changes to the to-do list which are just new items appended to the bottom are just added to the file in the main branch and can be pushed without having an informative commit message.

This is something that normally takes multiple commands


git add website/to-do.markdown
git commit -m 'Update to-do list'
git push origin main --force

I have instead added to my repo git config file:

sync-to-do = "!f() { git add website/to-do.markdown && git commit -m \"Update to-do list\" && git push origin HEAD --force; }; f"

I edit my to-do list from my MacOS personal machine, but sometimes I edit the private Jekyll site from GitHub codespaces so eventually I would like to sync my aliases but for now, I will just stick to this.
