---
layout: post
title: "Export Most of Your Data from Todoist with Nushell"
image: "/assets/bitsbipsbricks/Todoist-Export-Nushell/todoist-export-nushell.png"
permalink: bitsbipsbricks/Todoist-Export-Nushell
---

{% include image.html 
  name="todoist-export-nushell.png" 
  alt="Todoist Export Nushell" 
%}

I have recently changed how I use Todoist, but before, I exported all (okay, I think it was more like most of) my data.

Since I exported all of my data once, I now want to export and back up my Todoist data regularly.

Here is how to get most of your data from Todoist using Nushell:

I'm going to assume you have Nushell installed. If not, install [Nushell](https://www.nushell.sh/book/installation).

I would probably recommend doing so in Homebrew:

```
brew install nushell
```

But I'm not sure, because I installed Nushell before I realized I should be installing as much of my software through a package manager as possible.


1. Get your API key from [Todoist](https://app.todoist.com/app/settings/integrations/developer). 

Be aware that this API key has, as far as I can tell, admin-level permissions for your Todoist account. 

Whatever you can do through the GUI, the API key allows you authorization to do. You can
only have 1 API key at a time. You can't restrict the API key in any way. 

You can revoke the API key by clicking the `Issue a new API token` button (on the [same page](https://app.todoist.com/app/settings/integrations/developer)). But that is going to log you out of all Todoist sessions, which is super annoying if you are logged into Todoist in Chrome, your phone and have a bunch of scripts and widgets using that API key.

2. Set the API key as the `TODOIST_API_TOKEN` environment variable

3. Copy [this](/sync.nu) in as `sync.nu`:

```

```

4. Copy [this](runner.nu) in as `runner.nu`:


5. Run `nu runner.nu` in your terminal.

You should get a file called `todoist-export.json` in the same directory as the script.
